Who wants to do something silly and
dumb with server side rendering?
Okay, do not do this today, this is
kind of a preview of what's coming,
but it was so easy to do that I
think it's pretty compelling.
What if you wanna show
everyone the pets right away,
you wanna learn, you wanna load
the first load with everything there.
That would be pretty cool, right?
The user is immediately getting
the first set of pets right away.
The way that you would do that
correctly today is basically,
you would have your server.
So here in server JS, basically,
write some method that calls that
API every five minutes and
cache the result.
And then go into your React app and
make it so like, hey,
if there is a cached version
available somewhere in the HTML or
something like that, use that first,
otherwise, make that request.
You can also give React query
like a cached initial data,
that's what you would do there, right?
And that would work today really well,
but let's do this with basically no code.
So we're gonna mess with suspense.
You're not supposed to use
suspense this way yet,
the React team was very adamant that
I should probably not show you this.
I do not care.
They don't pay me.
So, we're gonna do cool stuff together.
All right, if you're on Node 18,
you don't have to do this part,
if you are in anything underneath,
if you're on Node 16, you must do this.
If you're on Node 14,
this will just not work.
So if you're on Node 16 like me,
put node here and
then put --experimental fetch,
like that, okay?
Then I need you to pop into app.jsx
And here we have queries,
stale time and cache time.
We're gonna turn on React queries,
suspense: true.
This is an experimental feature built into
React query that allows it to interact
with suspense as well.
If you remember we have
suspense right here, right?
So basically, what React query is gonna do
is like, hey, if you're loading something,
throw it into suspense mode, right?
Which they don't want you doing yet,
but it is possible,
because all it does is throw a promise and
suspense just catches promises,
which is a weird API, but
it's how they chose to do it.
Okay, build your client again,
build your server again.
[BLANK AUDIO]
npm run start.
All right, so
you can see this experimental warning,
fetch is an experiment.
It's actually built into 18, so
you won't get this warning in 18 anymore.
Now if I refresh the page.
There we go, it is now everything.
So if you look at the source here,
you'll see here
that we're getting,
Luna is coming up in here,
Havanese, Seattle, Bunnahabhain.
They're all coming up here in the results.
It's actually going in the browser or
in our server, and it's calling
fetch to the API on the server layer and
then serving them complete HTML.
With all the results,
with the breed lists,
all that kind of stuff just pre-hydrated.
Imagine if you were serving a request to
Mars right now, you would definitely wanna
do something like this because round trips
are so expensive for tomorrow's, right?
So this could be something really
useful if you need something that's,
you wanna send an all in one
payload just right away.
This would be a cool way to do it.
Calling fetch from your
server on every request,
probably a bad idea,
probably I don't wanna do that, right?
That's why I was saying here in your
node code, you would much rather make
all those requests in some sort of
local cached way of doing it and
just hold that in there and
then hydrate it on every request, right?
Then you're not making,
if you're getting 5,000 requests a second,
you're not making 5,000 fetch requests.
All the same, it's pretty entertaining
that I was able to do this with just
a couple of lines of code, right?
So, that style of doing data loading with
suspense is coming,
trademark coming, right?
It's been coming for five years at this
point, that they are getting closer.
You can see now that it actually does
work, but don't hold your breath,
but it is coming.
Basically what they're saying is that they
don't like their throwing promises API and
they're promising to change it.
So they don't want people to relying
on it quite yet, that's the idea.